# Air_Quality_Prediction

The aim of this study was to develop a model to recommend air quality of a given area.
Predicting air quality is a necessary step to be taken by the government as it is becoming the major concern among the health of human beings. Air quality Index measure the quality of air. Various air pollutants causing air pollution are Carbon dioxide, Nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide etc that are released from burning of natural gas, coal and wood, industries, vehicles etc. Air Pollution can cause severe disease like lungs cancer, brain disease and even lead to death. Machine learning algorithms helps in determining the air quality index. Various research is being done in this field but still results are still not accurate. Dataset are available from Kaggle, air quality monitoring sites and divided into two Training and Testing. Machine Learning algorithms employed for this are Linear Regression, Decision Tree, Random Forest, Artificial Neural Network, Support Vector Machine.

In recent years, the prevention and control of environmental pollution attracted much attention, and the haze weather directly affects people's travel health. In order to effectively prevent and control air pollution, optimize the air quality evaluation system. In this paper, PM2.5, PM10, SO2, NO2, CO and O3_8h are used as characteristic factors, and air quality index is used as a decision factor. A variety of regression algorithms are selected to establish a prediction model, and the accuracy and generalization ability of various algorithms are compared. The results show that the Random Forest Regression algorithm (RFR) and the Gradient Boosting Regression algorithm (GBR) can effectively predict the Air Quality Index (AQI) and the air quality level. This paper provides a reference for the establishment of the air quality model.
